Made by

Contents:

[0] intro

[1] how to run program

[2] how to play blokus

[3] diagnostics provided


---------------------------------------------------------------------------

[0]: INTRO

this project is a visualizer for playing a modified version of blokus duo
which is a 2 player competitive board game

---------------------------------------------------------------------------

[1]: HOW TO RUN PROGRAM
     1) make sure all the following libraries are installed
	- pygame
	- numpy
     2) run blokus.py on command line as follows
	- python3 blokus.py

---------------------------------------------------------------------------

[2]: RULES OF BLOKUS
     this game is a slightly modified version of blokus duo
     a short description of blokus and blokus duo can be found 
     on this page: en.wikipedia.org/wiki/blokus

     Blokus is a two player competitive strategy game.
     Each player is given an identical set of tiles each tile
     made up of between one and five 'cells'

     	Examples of tiles:

		'i1' tile:    +

			      +
		'w'  tile:    + +
			        + +
     
     The objective of the game is to place more cells on the board
     than your oponent.
     
     There are two players which take alternating turns starting with
     player 1
     How to make a move:
     	a move consists of a player choosing any of their remaining
        pieces and placing it on the board.
	
	A piece placement MUST follow these rules
	EXCEPT on each players first turn

	1) the piece placed MUST touch at least one corner of one of
           the players other pieces.
        2) the piece place can NOT touch any of the sides of one of
           the players other pieces (your piece may touch the side
	   of the opponents pieces though).
	
	On the first turn:
	Player 1: Must place a piece such that a cell of the piece
		  occupies either the top left or right cells of
		  the board.
	Player 2: Must place a piece sush that a cell of the piece
		  occupies either the bottom left or right cells of
		  the board.

	If a player can not make a move they "Pass" which means that
	they will not be playing any other pieces for the remainder
	of the game.

	The game ends when both players have passed and the score is
	calculated by the sum of each players cells on the board.

	THINGS TO NOTE:
	1) the pieces can be played in any order.
	2) once one player passes the other player can take as many
	   turns in a row they need until they can no longer place
           any of their pieces on the board.
	3) on a move other than the first turn a player IS allowed
	   to place a piece connecting to one of their respective 
           starting corners
	4) a player is allowed to click on the other players buttons
	   (explained in 'PROGRAM CONTROLS') on their turn EXCEPT for
           the other players pass button

	RULE CHANGES FROM REGULAR BLOKUS DUO:
	1) score is counted upwards based on number of cells placed
           on board instead of counting down based on cells placed on
	   board.
	2) there are NO bonus points for placing the 'i1' or 'monomino'
           piece last.
	3) players start in the corner of the board instead of in the
	   board (blokus duo normally starts in the center while standard
           blokus starts in a corner)
	
	PROGRAM CONTROLS:
	
	The 14 * 14 board is the checkered area on the left side of the 
	window upon launching the game.
	
	In the right portion of the screen there are two "gamepads"
	one for each player.
        
        Each gamepad contains:
		- A label for the player the gamepad is for
		- A preview of the piece selected
		- 6 buttons:
			- pass: signals player has no more moves left
			- next piece: cycles to players next piece
			- previous piece: cycles to players previous piece
			- rotate left: rotates piece -90 degrees
			- rotate right: rotated piece 90 degrees
			- flip piece: flips piece along an axis

	When hovering the mouse over the board an imprint of the selected
	piece of the player to move is drawn below the mouse snapped to 
	the nearest board position.
	
	To make a move the player clicks the left mouse button.
	The game will attempt to place the piece where the imprint is left
	on the board. If the move is legal the piece is placed on the board
	and the game removes the piece from the players remaining pieced 
	and cycles to the next player. 
	
	NOTE: sometimes the imprint for certain pieces will
	not be perfectly under the mouse, it has been tested that all pieces
	can be placed in any valid location you may just have to move the
	mouse to a slightly different postion.

---------------------------------------------------------------------------
[3] DIAGNOSTICS PROVIDED

	During the game these diagnostics are visible for each player:
	1) the players current score
	2) the players number of remaining pieced
        These diagnostics are visible on each players gamepad

	After the game these diagnostics are visible for each player:
	1) the players final score
	2) the players void tiles
	   A void tile is an empty cell on the board in which the player
	   would not be able to place a piece due to its adjacency to the
	   sides of another of the players piece.
	   A more efficient packing of the players pieced will result in
	   less void tiles.
	3) the players number of remaining pieces
	
	Addtionally these diagnostics that are common between players are
	shown 
	1) the number of empty tiles remaining on the board
	   (the board has 196 total tiles)
	2) Which player won or if there is a draw
